# Upgrading Pimcore from Version 11.x to Version 12

## Tasks to Do Prior the Update
### Doctrine EntityManager
Check if all 3rd party bundles are compatible with the new Doctrine EntityManager.
There are 2 possible ways:
1. Check if the bundles use the default EntityManager with the default connection.
2. Check if the bundles use another EntityManager with another connection.

Warning: Do not use the default EntityManager with another connection (or the other way round). This will delete tables.


### WYSIWYG-Editor
#### Enable Quill (recommended)
Please check the bundle [readme](https://github.com/pimcore/quill-bundle/blob/1.x/README.md) for installation instructions.
To migrate from TinyMCE to Quill please check the following [link](https://github.com/pimcore/quill-bundle/blob/1.x/doc/01_Migration_to_Quill.md)

#### Enable TinyMCE (deprecated)
If TinyMCE is still needed for your project, you can still use it, but it has been moved into [PimcoreTinymceBundle](https://github.com/pimcore/tinymce-bundle/blob/1.x/README.md). Check the bundle readme for installation instructions.
There will be no (security) updates for it.

## Configuration Adaptions
- [Security] Adapt your `security.yaml` to remove the deprecated setting `enable_authenticator_manager`:

## Ensure `pimcore.encryption.secret` is set
- `pimcore.encryption.secret` must be set in your system. This is required for the new product registration. 
  If not set already, run `vendor/bin/generate-defuse-key` to generate a secret and set it as 
  container parameter `pimcore.encryption.secret` or in the symfony configuration as `pimcore.encryption.secret`. 


## Tasks to Do After the Update

### Product Registration
- From now on, Pimcore requires a product registration and container build will fail if the product key is not valid.
  Follow the link provided in the error message and register your instance. For Details also see 
  [Product Registration](../../01_Getting_Started/02_Product_Registration.md).
  Also `pimcore.encryption.secret` must be set for the product registration to work.


### Some Code Changes

- implement function `getColumnsWithMetadata` of `bundles/CustomReportsBundle/src/Tool/Adapter/CustomReportAdapterInterface.php`
- implement function `getPagination` of `bundles/CustomReportsBundle/src/Tool/Adapter/CustomReportAdapterInterface.php`
